ready
well good evening everyone and welcome
to the June Pittsylvania County School
Board regular meeting
good to see this many in attendance
tonight thank all y'all for coming
we got a few closed items to take care
of and then we'll get into the regular
meeting so first I need a roll call Mr
Burton
president Mr Fitzgerald president Mr
Henderson president Ms Merricks
president Mr Mills here Mr Moon Mr dolls
here I believe we have a couple of older
supervisors I'll see at least two Mr
Dudley in the back Mr Tucker is not
anybody else
thank you all for being here appreciate
it
we're going to recess from close we're
going to go back into clothes following
this open meeting so I need a motion to
recess and certify please
how can
I have a motion in a second any
discussion
roll call please
Mr Burton Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson
aye Miss Merricks aye Mr Mills yes Mr
Moon
Mr Dallas uh items from clothes
we have a motion to approve the request
for release from compulsory attendance
based on religious religious exemption
for two students
second I have a motion a second for
release from compulsory attendance any
discussion
roll call please Mr Burton
Mr Henderson aye Ms Merricks aye Mr
Mills yes Mr Moon aye Mr dots
we have a motion to approve the
Personnel changes for June 13 2023 as
presented so moved
Motion in the second any discussion any
questions
roll call please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr doc aye
Dr Jones I think you have a couple
announcements of assistant principal yes
sir I do Mr Dawson School members like
to recommend this evening to assistant
principal positions individuals for the
position of assistant principal at Twin
Springs is Mrs Heather Langford uh Mrs
Langford currently teaches at Chatham
middle school she's also taught four
years at Union Hall she taught six years
in Henry County and one year for virtual
Virginia she has a BS an elementary
education from Old Dominion University
and an MS in educational leadership from
Bradford University
I would like to recommend this evening
the assistant principal for Dan River
Middle Mrs Lauren Bunn I think Mrs Bunn
is in the back Miss Bunn you'd like to
stand up be recognized Mrs Bunn has been
teaching with us for 10 years one year
at Stony Mill and nine years at Dan
River Middle she has a ba in PK 6 6 to 8
English
from Emory and Henry college and an Med
an Administration supervision PK 12 from
Avett University congratulations and
welcome this evening Miss Bond
congratulations do you know what you're
getting yourself into
it do I have a motion for these two
individuals
any discussion
roll call please Mr Burton
Henderson
aye Ms Merricks Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr
Goss uh congratulations Miss bunny
get you some work clothes
oh yeah
um
we need to set the salary for the
superintendent and the clerk at this
time do I have a motion for that
and a amount
so move I need I need an amount
I'll make the motion
to go along five percent uh
that's what everybody else yeah five
percent across the board okay
second and we have a motion in a second
for the superintendent clerk to get the
same five percent raise everybody else
any discussion
roll call please Mr Burton Mr Fitzgerald
Mr Henderson aye Ms Merricks aye Mr
Mills yes Mr Moon Mr Doss aye
all right now do we have any additions
to the agenda I know we have one and
that is
um please add 10.7 it's um a procurement
bid for ballistic security film
to be installed to my schools
how many schools can start today in here
all of them
okay thank you oh there you go
so I need a motion to approve agenda
with the one additional outing
have a motion in a second
any discussion roll call please Mr
Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr
Henderson aye Ms Merricks Mr Mills yes
Mr Moon Mr Doss aye consent agenda move
improves consent agenda
any discussion on any consent agenda
items I do
I'm sorry I couldn't hear you
the reassignment of personnel are they
lateral moves are they any assignment
that that is given to superintendency
authority to make those moves right are
they lateral like is it teacher going to
teacher assistance okay yeah
that's we have to do that every year
for him to be alive to do it right I
just want a clarification that it was
any other questions
did I get emotions
Mr Burton Mr Fitzgerald Mr Henderson aye
Ms Merricks aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr
Dows aye
okay we gotta go now to Public
Presentation with recognition of
students
first up is recognition of students for
perfect attendance Miss Petty you doing
that
you need some new Wheels
second
who do you need Miss Patty
Dan real first Miss Mary
good evening chairman Dawes school board
members Dr Jones and they're pleased to
recognize three students this evening
for perfect attendance for 13 years we
will start with Dan River High School
with the principals administrators come
forward to join us principal Anastasia
grimmel assistant principals Franklin
Ferguson and Jonathan Fain
each of these three students will
receive a certificate that reads
this certificate of excellence is
presented in recognition and
appreciation for outstanding achievement
for attaining 13 years of perfect
attendance for grades K-12 granted this
13th day of June 2023 by the
Pennsylvania County School Board Calvin
Doss School Board chair Kelly Merricks
School Board Vice chair
and our first student to be recognized
this evening is Aaliyah Jones
Dan River High School
congratulations
congratulations Aaliyah
our next two students are from Tunstall
High School
principal Brian Bowles assistant
principals Lisa Titan and Dustin Eckles
our next student 13 years of perfect
attendance Gabby Elliott
[Applause]
same here looking now
congratulations Gabby
and our next student from Tunstall High
School is Greenlee Elliott
congratulations 13 years perfect
attendance
[Applause]
congratulations to these students with
this tremendous accomplishment thank you
I think that's absolutely awesome I
don't know how in the world you cannot
get sick in 13 years when you in a
school that everybody in the world gets
sick
it's just a breeding ground sometimes
that is phenomenal congratulations
up next we have the recognition of
students for skillsusa Miss Regner
and Miss Dalton if you would come down
flute as well
we had several students who participated
in our state school USA competitions
this year
our first student and we had multiple
students who are not able to be with us
this evening so our teachers and our
principals going to accept on their
behalf our first one is Nelson Haller
who plays second in the state Schools
USA welding competition and Miss Dalton
is gonna
yes Nelson Hyler placed second in the
state skills USA welding competition
granted this ninth day of May 2023 by
the Pennsylvania County School Board
next is Brian Reynolds
okay
I want to see that
next is Brian Reynolds Brian placed
second in the state skills USA welding
fabrication and this was a team
competition
Mr Doss is going to accept on his behalf
next is Noah Durham Noah was on the
welding fabrication team that placed
second
no one's from Chatham
next also on the Weld and Fabrication
team is Briar Burdette
[Music]
profane
and you weld
Mr Bowles if you want to come on back
down and Mr Bartz if you want to come
down
next is going to be Tristan Bagby he
plays third in the state skillsusa
industrial motor controls competition
laughs
Mr Barts can go back
Mr McKinney if you would come down
next is Benjamin Barrett who plays third
in the state state skills USA cyber
security
and we are excited to have with us this
evening Mr Jacob Richardson who plays
third in the state skills USA cyber
security competition
[Applause]
[Music]
congratulations Jacob
Mr fine if you would come back up
thank you
okay
one day in row all right let's see
what'll happen stay tracked Miss petty
you're doing the state track yes sir
personal day in River yes okay Miss
America Two recognitions this evening
and thank you Mr Fain for joining us
again
and if the coaches are with us Ryan
Womack and Maurice Reynolds
this certificate of excellence is
presented to ASA Fletcher in recognition
and appreciation for outstanding
achievement for placing first in the
vhsl state class two boys 800 meter
Championship granted this 13th day of
June 2023 by the Pennsylvania County
School Board Calvin Dawson Schoolboy
chair Kelly Merrick School Board Vice
chair congratulations ASA Fletcher
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you and congratulations again ASA
next Coastal High School Mr Henderson
principal Brian Bowles
coach Cameron Hairston
this certificate of excellence is
presented to Jamarcus Brown in
recognition and appreciation for
outstanding achievement for placing
second in the vhsl state all-state high
jump granted this 13th day of June 2023
by the Pennsylvania County School Board
Calvin doll school board chair Kelly
Merricks School Board advice here
congratulations
[Applause]
[Music]
haha did you jump
and I said hi
again congratulations to Marcus Brown
and ASA Fletcher thank you thank you
Miss Patty
a next presentation is for Mr Tommy
Motley
smartly
you want to talk about milk
congrats near and dear to Your Heart
Right
okay all right oh I was at a farm bureau
meeting back in April and it was about
to my attention that the Virginia State
derman's Association would fund a milk
dispenser in one school in Irving county
in the state
so that is when I called uh Roy Vande
Hyde he's on the state Durham and just
Board Association who's got the grant
money and that's when I started calling
Mr Burton and different ones and
yourself and Miss uh Hancock about what
do we need to do to get them in our
County Bedford County has put one in in
the increased consumption of milk it
doubled in Pennsylvania county is the
second largest Dairy county in the state
of Virginia now I'm going to turn it
over to Roy van yet to hide to tell he
has had the contacts with the different
people to make this happen and we just
thank you for this time you've allowed
us thank you Mr Motley Mr Van Dyke
thank you for being here tonight
thanks for hearing us today
um so I'm former president of Virginia
state Dairy Association we are putting
Grant monies together to put these milk
coolers or bulk milk coolers so the milk
comes in about a four gallon bag and
what it does is it then you just pour it
out in a cup it keeps the milk at 34
degrees you wouldn't believe the
difference between an old box you know
that you have to open it's warm you know
it
um
the kids will drink a lot more of this
milk and it will also be it's set up to
be processed and controlled by Homestead
Creamery which is also a local a local
business
as Tommy said you know June is dairy
month so that's why we wanted to kind of
bring this to eat the board's attention
we have had meetings with the staff and
they are working on you know getting one
but we would love to see in the future
all the schools you know put these in
because it's
way better for the students you know and
you know we're hoping that more milk
will be consumed to you know further our
business also thanks for your time if
you got any questions I'll be here later
anybody have any questions today that Mr
my limits man to have
if I understand you said what you're
saying is they are going to support one
one school right we will support all the
schools that we can get signed up
okay you know we
we meet twice a year and then fund the
program so you know if if all the
schools decide they want to be you know
on board
you know we need to know and we can get
the funds up for the great for the
cooler
so right and I uh Miss
Scott who is over the school nutrition
has identified a school to Pilot the
first one in
September
she wants to start in September that's
my understanding is that is that doable
for y'all if we can get the equipment
okay the equipment is the issue right
now because actually we're moving so
many of them I I get it so we have a
school identified and so whenever you
get the equipment and get ready if you
let Dr Jones know or Mr Scott
then they can work out the detail that's
correct they're good okay all right
sounds like a good
good playing it we hope we hope it'll
you know be a plus for every you know
all the kids in this in this County plus
you know
promote our industry also so did Bedford
if they had did they have theirs Allah
last year or they just recently
installed it do you know not 100 but I
think it got put in like Christmas time
or something I know you know milk was a
you know milk consumption went up 66
when they put it in within within 10
days and and I believe she's been in
contact with them to to
say about it yeah
okay
appreciate y'all coming look forward to
seeing a milk machine
thank you thank you Miss Motley yeah one
more thing appreciate Tommy listening so
that he bring us to attention because I
didn't catch it and I think I did the
same thing they appreciated I appreciate
y'all taking care of us
thank y'all up next Mr Mayhew do you
have any new employees
yes sir okay
we've already recognized you
congratulations again
[Music]
um so we have a request to address the
board
if you'll give me just a second
I got a paper here somewhere
I need to read
so the next item is School Board I'm
talking about school board policy b h b
d d h p c r regulations for public
presentations
participation at school board meetings
members of the community are invited and
encouraged our attend meetings of the
Pennsylvania County School Board to
deserve observe its deliberations any
member of the community may address the
board on matters related to the
Pennsylvania County Schools interested
members of the community should contact
the superintendent the clerk of the
board or the School board chairman
within three days of the scheduled
meeting for placement on the agenda each
presenter will be allowed three minutes
to make their presentation the chairman
will determine the number of individuals
allowed to speak on the same subject if
more than one individual's desire to
speak on that subject no one will be
allowed to make an additional pres
presentation under until everyone who
wishes to speak has the opportunity to
make the initial presentation the clerk
of the school board records the names of
the community members wishing to speak
to the board and provide them to the
chairman Ms Hancock do we have any names
this evening of those wishing to address
the board
yes we do those wishing to address the
board may speak on any any
school-related issues however the names
of students or specifics about a case
involving students where students
identities can be determined may not be
addressed in Open Session complaints
made about staff members are handled
through the school board policy gbla PC
third-party complaints against employees
if you have a complaint regarding a
staff member that matter will be
addressed utilizing this policy not in
Open Session if you have questions
regarding the third poly complaints
policy please contact the superintendent
they have a presented discusses or
attempts to discuss Mattis that are not
permitted during the presentation
section of the Virginia the Virginia
will be declared out of order
the remarks will be stricken from the
minutes of the proceedings of the
meeting and the speaker will be asked to
end their comments and return to their
seat each one gets three minutes and I
just just there's a lot to read but
there's a reason why we can't talk about
students and our staff in open meetings
that's a reason that we don't have a
open sign up because
we're not the Board of Supervisors most
of our discussions are revolve around
students or incidents involving students
or staff
so that's why we're very particular
about making sure that anything in Open
session does not you know does not
identify either student or staff member
okay so at this time we'll ask Michelle
could you have Kelsey Myers
Ms Myers
good evening good evening
my name is Kelsey Myers and I live in
the Stanton River District I have lived
here my entire life was raised here
graduated from the county schools and
now continue to live and work here in
Pennsylvania county
it is a place I call home and for the
most part have always felt safe recent
happenings have changed my mindset
though as it seems the ways of the world
are creeping into our small communities
and schools alike
I have nieces nephews and many important
children in my life that attend
Pittsylvania County schools and to say
that I worry about them and their safety
would be an understatement
school safety is something we hear all
the time but something we must begin to
take seriously
children are gaining more and more
access to guns and drugs and while the
particular weapon of choice isn't to
blame we never know whose hands they
will fall into which then leads to the
uncertainty of who and how many students
many students could be walking around
our schools with one on them or in a
backpack and how within seconds the
schools could become a war zone with no
warning at all if these situations arise
will we be ready
will our administrators teachers staff
and most importantly our children be
ready to respond to this type of
situation
at this point I don't feel that I can
say with absolute certainty that
everyone is ready for this type of
potential tragedy that could happen here
in Pennsylvania county right here in our
small schools with walls adorned with
handprint flowers colorful crafts that
have been made by K through third grade
students pictures of science fair
winners students of the month graduate
of Merit recipients and inspirational
quotes such as these from Walt Disney
the way to get started is to quick quit
talking and begin doing and also I
always like to look on the optimistic
side of life but I am a real realistic
enough to know that life is a complex
matter and that is exactly what we need
to do to make 100 certain that all
schools School staff no matter the
position and all students are aware of
how to handle such situations we all
like to think that this type of disaster
won't happen here but I think we have
been shown that it totally can PCS has
set a great example for a school
district having standardized test scores
that are above average having Blue
Ribbon Schools and Championship athletic
teams but now let's strive to do the
same with the safety and protection of
our students let our School Division be
the example that others turn to when it
comes to safely and being proactive
I will leave you with one final quote
from Walt Disney as it relates to safety
and be in the example in a positive way
instead of being the example for how not
to handle situations whatever you do do
it well do it so well that when people
see you do it they will want to come
back and see you do it again and they
will want to bring others and show them
how well you do what you do thank you
for your time
thank you Miss Myers
Kalyn McCluster
I believe I'll have to get your help up
here a minute
she's got too many things going on
you just tell me when you're ready and
I'm gonna try to talk fast so
give her just a second here
there that's all right go ahead ready
all right good evening Mr chairman
members of the board Dr Jones and School
staff my name is Caitlin McCluster and
I'm here tonight to speak as a mom of
three children who attend Pennsylvania
County Schools as we all know the world
we live in is not the world that we once
knew and stress worry and violence are
at every corner we turn not just the
parents but for students alike a few
months ago my husband was putting my
five-year-old son into our car and
buckled him up just like he does every
morning he told him he hopes he has a
great day that very morning my son
immediately replied me too I just hope
we don't have a code red today
and my heart was instantly broken
always worry about my children but at
this very moment it wasn't just myself
worrying children now carry that anxiety
also
we are all aware of the teacher who was
shot by her six-year-old student in
Newport News and many have questioned
how a six-year-old gets possession of a
gun like that and gets it into a school
I don't have those answers but he did
events like that are happening right
here and as a parent I think we as a
whole have to come together and begin
Paving a path forward a path that
includes you all parents Community
leaders and other vital agencies to
revisit some of these topics that are
listed in the school's handbooks and
crisis management plans there should be
very clear guidelines and detailed steps
on how to handle emergency situations
and communication with not only parents
but School staff as well
this isn't just about our children this
is about our administrators our staff
and any other individual who may be in
our schools they all have families
waiting for them to come home in the
evening as well students and School
staff need and deserve to feel safe and
protected while they are there parents
deserve to feel confident in sending
their children to school knowing the
when situations arise everyone is
trained accordingly to respond to those
situations
since school is out now my husband and I
thought that it would be appropriate to
have a conversation with my six-year-old
about responding to a possible active
shooter situation our conversation went
a little like this
his name is Easton I said Easton if you
had a code red at school what would you
do
and he responded with the typical well
we have to cut the lights off we have to
get over to the side of the classroom
and we have to hide and we have to be
really quiet so that's awesome his
teacher has taught him that and that's
wonderful
I said if you were in the bathroom and
they called a code red what would you do
he said well we have to get up on the
toilet I think that's kind of stupid but
that's what we have to do I'm like
that's exactly right that's what you
should do
I said what if when you leave the
bathroom and you're in the hallway they
call a code red and all the doors get
shut and they're locked he was a little
hesitant with that question so we talked
about hey how he would just go to the
next door and knock on the door let him
know who he was and that he was in the
bathroom for them to let him in
I said so what if you were in the
hallway and you saw someone in the
school with a gun what would you do
like a typical boy he said I try to
fight him but we explained that he would
need to run as fast and as hard as he
could to get out of the school the
hardest question of all was when I
looked at him and I said what would you
do if you were in your classroom and
someone come in and begin shooting or
one of your classmates started shooting
his little face looked at me with
confusion and then he said I guess I
would just lay in the floor
do you know how difficult it was to
explain to my six-year-old that he
definitely would need to lay in the
floor he would need to lay there and he
would need to play dead that was
extremely hard
I think it's time for all School staff
to be involved in these types of
trainings I think the communities need
to do their part and be involved as well
and that involves parents I think people
need to step up to the plate I think we
all need to work together make sure that
our schools are safe making prevention
and preparedness a priority is essential
in crisis situations
and I know that all of you sitting up
there tonight you want to keep our
schools safe you want to keep our
children safe but sometimes that one in
that desire is just not enough I also
know that serving the public as all of
you board members do is mostly a
thankless job and I do want to take the
time to thank you tonight I want to
thank you for your willingness to serve
I want to thank you for your time to
allow me to share my concerns and I want
to thank you for making the safety of
our children the highest priority have a
good night thank you
[Applause]
a little later to a little later tonight
you'll be hearing about a training
exercise that's coming up that we'll be
addressing a lot of this that's already
in place I think Mr Scott will be up in
a little bit so don't leave yet you'll
get to hear it
all right next Courtney Kendrick
Courtney
okay thank you all that's all the ones
we had signed up tonight
Dr Jessica Jones president of pea
are you smiling because it's summer
you're still busy right
on Saturday he retired some years ago
and he made it a point to say I'm just
as busy now as I was yes if you want to
rest don't retire
High School Horticulture teachers
funeral
he went into Eternal rest and we talked
about that he actually retired in 1999 I
was in the last Horticulture class with
Mr Roberts and he made it a point to
always just work so even after 20 some
years of retirement the man continued to
just work until he gave out
nonetheless my smile does come for a
couple different reasons but a
reflection upon what's been brought up
earlier I remember my first year of
teaching
and across the hall in the special
education room a young man sitting on
the corner
um I actually had his book bag sitting
in front of him
and I have my door open
and
the teacher across the hall had her door
open because you know we were friends
and I look and guess what he whips out
of his book bag
Farm
and he's sitting there and he's showing
it to his friends I'm like this is not
good
so we I'm calling on the phone I'm like
this
teachers over and
then she sees it she's trying to call
nonetheless that was like 20 years ago
the response time was about 15 minutes
before somebody actually showed up and
escorted him
downstairs
um and that 15 minutes what could have
happened
you know now years later
I know the young man I'm friends with
the young man he's got child
but things could have been very
different and you can't always go back
and say how how could it have been
different because it could have ended up
really really really bad
and knowing he was a senior in high
school he should have known better cases
we can't say what people should know but
we need to be prepared for those things
um and I agree with that
having literally looked at it across the
hall my first year teaching
and it's a challenge because it doesn't
matter if you're in school if you're in
a grocery store wherever the case might
be you always are thinking about the
exit plan but when you're dealing with
children you're trying to think about
the safety plan of how to keep them safe
in that environment so I want to thank
my uh my colleagues and my peers for
bringing that up because I know that
it's in the hearts of many and for 20
years it's always been in my heart I
just hope the next 20 doesn't look like
that
um now one of the other things switching
kind of Gears a little bit is I was
talking to Mr Motley Mr Vander Hyde you
all a year ago heard me talk about
National Dairy month and one of the
things that I spoke to you about as a
mill commissioner is the push for the
actual milk machines and if they can
secure the Grant and get the machines it
would be ideal Lynchburg city was one of
the first ones in the state of Virginia
in our area to be able to put them in
and they're more feasible from a
long-term standpoint when it comes to
the quality of milk so you're not
looking at a high spoilage rate when
it's when a child gets there when adult
gets it it doesn't have a sediment
separation so it has more flavor
therefore people are more likely to
drink it so if you can continue to
identify those schools and get that list
going once you can get one it's almost
like they just fall into place and it's
something that helps not just the dairy
industry but children as a whole and
enjoy their milk
and then we're also looking at some
legislation that should allow for whole
milk to be in school which only has four
percent milk fat versus two percent
which is most of the time what you're
drinking
um
with it also being said if you have not
enjoyed your milk or your cheese or your
ice cream please make sure that you do
that and go by your nearest grocery
store and I will not mention any of them
because I do not want to have to say
that I'm working for one or another but
it will help support our deer industry
again milk month started in 1937 to
basically say this is how we contribute
back to the industry and now all these
years later across the Commonwealth you
know we have a close to 8 million people
that are literally drinking the state
beverage and most people don't realize
that milk is a state beverage
what most people also don't realize is
this week is
agriculture week it was proclaimed by
Governor youngin last year to be the
week of June the 12th through the 18th
it's this week June 11th through the
17th to recognize celebrate and thank
the Commonwealth agricultural community
so yet again another way to thank what
we do in production agriculture by
getting some dairy products and enjoying
the summer solstice that should kick off
next Wednesday
in addition to that as we continue to
look forward and focus on what's in the
future one of the things that's in my
future back to what you're saying
earlier Mr Doss we have our state of
fake convention next week and it's the
97th event so if you are in the area of
Blacksburg Virginia we invite you to
come on down and be able to see many
many students from across the
Commonwealth and career and leadership
development events workshops we'll also
have our first lady Suzanne Younkin
who's going to be a keynote speaker
we'll also have our National FFA
president he is our former Virginia FFA
secretary Mr Andrew Seibel speak to
attendees as well so it's an opportunity
for students to develop their Premier
leadership personal growth and Career
Success through their opportunities
and looking forward to what they can do
for their future
now where does it all start in education
with decisions that are made by
everybody in this room chiefly starting
with you all
and I've say that in such a way last
month trade schools created a
publication that focused on education
and in mid-may they did an article and
that article covered everything from PK
12 to higher education
and it was titled major issues in
education I encourage you to look this
up again major issues in education 20
Hot Topics from grade school to college
now the article highlights how in
America okay and we we need to drill
down into Pennsylvania county but in
America issues and education are big
topics of discussion both in the news
media and in the general public because
it impacts everybody it impacts our
society now the current education system
is beset by a wide range of challenges
we all know that we hear it every time
we come to a school board meeting and
then when you're not here okay it's it's
a cloak that you must wear from things
like cuts and government funding to
changes in disciplinary policies and so
much more
now everyone agrees that providing high
quality education for our citizens is a
worthy ideal okay it's an investment
okay it's not a burden it's an
investment sometimes we are perplexed
with the two
now the Oracle goes on to point out 13
different issues
in education from the K-12 level now I
want you to see if some of these sound
familiar to you
now according to them one government
funding for education
two school safety three disciplinary
policies four technology and education
five charter schools and voucher
programs six Common Core seven
standardized testing eight teacher
salaries nine the teaching of evolution
ten teacher tenure 11 bullying 12
poverty and then 13 class size
some of those sound familiar
right now further there are five
emerging Trends in education that are
forces shaping the years to come
they identified the first one as maker
learning or what is known as learning by
doing
and for y'all you know I'm an AG teacher
our FFA model is learning to do doing to
learn earning to live and living to
serve it's just like that phrase we're
learning to do as we go through
the second thing is moving away from
letter grades
the third the rise of micro credentials
which has already been in higher
education that's something that I've had
to deal with working with the University
of Mount Olive
and then four flipped classrooms
it's a real thing they started flipping
classrooms in places like New York and
even Phoenix Arizona about three or four
years ago and then five social emotional
learning how can a child focus on
learning if they can't focus because
they have so many other distractions
going on in their world
so though we may think school is out for
the summer right school never closes
okay because we're in the business of
people
and education never closes
you know we're tackling challenges and
serving communities day in and day out
listening to the issues and the concerns
but finding ways to solve those issues
so we take the summer months right to
rethink strategize mobilize regroup and
then take action because when we come
back into school we want to have a fresh
new way of thinking but also we want to
have a plan of action that everybody has
bought into and everybody can articulate
like that
and if we find that there's a problem we
want to stop make those changes
re-articulate and reaction
so though the school Halls may not be
filled right now wall-to-wall with
students the decisions that impact those
students and everybody in the community
fill the buildings and the work sites
all across our School Division
so I want to tell you yet again thank
you because it is and I heard it said
earlier this is a thankless job okay no
matter what you get paid you're always
having to solve a problem regardless if
you created it
so part of my leadership teams in here
Corey Foster sitting in the back our
government relations vice president
Evangelina balmorhe is sitting out in
the hallway she's our chapter and local
president our members our support of
citizens of the Pennsylvania Education
Association we are thankful for you
we're thankful that we're able to
collaborate with you and discuss these
issues and help you find those solutions
to the much very present challenges and
as we seek to navigate what lies forward
facing and if there are any questions at
any time you know I am here to answer
them in person by email or Zoom however
works for you
thank you thank you have a good meeting
up next we're going to have staff and
committee reports we're going to have an
update on a comprehensive plan Dr
Hollins great to see you again
I hope you're not working as hard in
your retirement as I am
I stay very busy you do but it's fun
busy right it is fun busy it's a new
kind of busy but
um good evening Mr Doss
school board members staff
um Dr Jones thank you for letting me
come this evening and just give you an
update on the comprehensive plan
development as you recall when I was
here back on April the 4th I told you
that a survey had been done and we were
in the process of reviewing the results
of the survey of our constituent groups
there were
1147 responses to the survey on the
strategic planning
Community survey
and you have a handout this evening and
I've just pulled some key parts of this
40 page report that we received from
Hanover research company
on the
of the survey results
there were three key objectives in the
conducting the survey and one was to
identify the key priorities for students
parents families and staff
to describe the current performance and
priority areas from the perspectives of
the constituents and then identify what
students parents family staff wanted to
see in our next District plan
the survey questions were divided up
into six different areas student
learning and outcomes student support
School climate and culture engaging
families and communities Staffing and
staff development
the key findings are re
provided there for you and I just want
to point out a few of the priorities in
these six areas
for student learning and outcome
the respondents indicated that the top
priorities are teaching students
communication problem solving and
self-management skills
so this was was very not surprising but
it certainly helps us to to Target those
areas and students support the top
priorities according to respondents are
related to mental health and behavioral
support I know that our staff is already
engaged in addressing these areas for
school climate and culture that's
inspiring students in a way so that they
enjoy learning and providing a safe
learning space for students was the
highest priority in this area
engaging families and communities
while respondents acknowledge that
Pennsylvania County Schools effectively
communicates with parents
communicating effectively with parents
and involving parents in the child's
learning is still the highest priority
in the area of engaging families
staff and staff development were
combined and the top priority in this
area is recruiting and retaining high
quality teachers
retaining enough staff to meet school
and District needs again these really
affirm some of the things that we we
probably already suspected
so the recommendations that are offered
by Hanover research based on these
findings there are three overarching
recommendations offered
one was to integrate non-academic skills
such as communication problem solving
and self-management into classroom
lessons
two is to communicate with parents in
ways and about topics that are most
accessible and important to them
and then third is to initiate policies
and practices designed to support
teachers and staff with the goals of
increasing retention
to increase retention the School
Division must focus on top staff
development priorities including which
monitoring staff satisfaction with
development offered and making
adjustments as needed
this is just a brief overview of the
findings in addition to this you have in
here an infographic
of the planning survey planning results
with this infographic it's a visual
summary of the survey responses
so you'll see there to begin with the
most high priority selections from
respondents what we need to address and
improve upon
retaining high quality teachers
support for students with Mental Health
Resources
support for students who need behavioral
support
monitoring staff satisfaction and
adjusted making adjustments
and support for students who need
academic support
now the items there that receive the
most good and excellent performance
Selections in other words what what is
the perception of what is going well
what it
that's providing enough technology
resources
from those who participated their
perception is is that the school
division is doing good or excellent in
providing
technology resources using technology
effectively in the classroom providing
material resources
providing a safe learning space for
students
and ensuring all students have equal
access to programs and activities so
those according to perceptions are what
we're doing well
so there's some recommendations offered
for principals
this has been reviewed with the
principles already
we've also reviewed the findings with
the executive team who are working on
the comprehensive plan for the next one
that's coming up but on pages two and
three of this infographics document
you will see the response overview of
the six survey areas are noted and
you'll see there's a left and right
column and on the left column for each
of the six areas you'll see what are the
high priority selection
based on the survey responses in the six
areas
on the right side in the blue those are
the top performing priorities based on
responses on what the School Division in
schools are doing good or excellent
so I won't take the time to read through
each of those six areas but I think it's
quite insightful and this is certainly
going to be helpful as we're working on
this comprehensive plan and hopefully
we'll be back with you
um with the the draft of that plan at
the end of the summer
hey do you have any any questions
thank you for letting me come and share
the findings of the survey with you this
evening or the highlights of it and if
you do have questions we'll be happy to
respond thank you Dr Holland we'll
appreciate all your hard work in this
too I know it's a big task well I I'm
just the facilitator we've got a lot of
a lot of heads that are being put
together to work on this and I
appreciate everybody's help thank you
very much thank you
okay up next is the year in budget
report miss warley you want to talk to
us about
our budget I guess we're still skinny
right now aren't we
I'm not but the budget is
good evening
um chairman Dallas board members and
staff
first I want to give you just a brief
update on the current fiscal year on
fiscal year 2023. I am happy to announce
that we did end our year up about 115
116 students in our average daily
membership
and what that means for us is a little
over a million extra dollars in state
revenue for this fiscal year
um and that's money that we will be
spending here at your end as well I also
wanted to make mention we had about two
million dollars in Savings in our
salaries and benefits and where that
comes from our retirements from the year
before resignations from the year before
during the year and vacancies we had
quite a number of vacancies that we were
not able to fill this current year
and the last pot of funds that we have
the you all know that we did bids for
our elementary school roofs we received
3.2 million dollars in state
construction funds that we applied
towards those roofs and our early
estimates from our Engineers we thought
we would need about a million to one and
a half million dollars to add to that in
order to make these groups happen
luckily I can say for the first time in
a long time those bids came we made some
changes I think I should I should say
that but those bids did come in under
um and we did not need any of our money
to apply towards the roof so we have
we're now using that in year-end
priorities so that gave us about four
and a half million dollars to spend at
year end and I want to give you just so
and this is all going on right now it
changes by the hour you know I have
money that's supposed to come in I have
an invoice I'm waiting for it doesn't
happen so we just keep moving things
around
um right now we have quite a few
year-end projects going on we will do as
much of that and pay for as much of that
as we can by June 30. and at that time
we'll carry over whatever funds we need
to finish those out in July but we have
lots of um replacing Carpet and Tile in
in our schools and libraries working on
the stem lab rooms some cafeterias
refinishing stage floors painting in
various locations we have roof repairs
on the ECC Dome along with the middle
schools the metal roofs on the middle
schools continuing improvements on the
maintenance Warehouse buildings a
much needed loan and athletic storage
building at Chatham High School
creating a farm classroom at pctc band
Towers at the four high schools an ice
storage Chiller at Gretna High School
other miscellaneous repairs um and
Replacements going on
um and then one one school security
project that I think you'll be talking
about later tonight is the ballistic
entryway the window film for all the
schools at the entryway so that that's
our list of year-end projects I did want
to go ahead and mention tonight
carryovers we are still waiting on
vehicles that we ordered in June of 2022
we carried over money last year for
these vehicles they have not arrived so
we will be carrying that over our buses
they keep getting put off they were
supposed to be here June 5th they're now
going to be August I believe it's the
date for the buses
and then we'll have our usual carryovers
our textbooks um quite a few grants that
we have where we receive the money up
front and we can only spend that money
on those projects we will be carrying
over the school construction funds the
3.2 million dollars because we have
received those funds
um the Stony Mill HVAC project I think
you're going to be looking at that
tonight too we'll carry over funds for
that
and then um I talked with Dr Jones today
so any other funds that we have
um once all of this is done we do want
to um carry those over for some of the
items that are on the sales tax
referendum the priority items there and
I think our top item are the safety
entry vestibules for the middle and high
school middle and elementary schools I'm
sorry
um so that's what we would like to do
um
with those funds as well so we're going
to have a large carryover this year I've
already talked to the Director of
Finance at the county so they are aware
of that
um but it it's it is going to be pretty
large
so any questions on 23.
I have one uh the one percent sales tax
goes into effect July one is that
correct yes when do we anticipate our
first
income if that's a proper word
payment so we assume we assume that it
will work
um like our regular sales tax and you
always collect two months out so
whatever comes in in July that will not
come to the county until September
and then they will they have a fund for
that so they will start collecting that
money in that fund at that time and we
are I think that they are planning to
look at at least about three months
worth of collections so that would be
September October and November so that
we can get a little better handle on
exactly how much money that we will have
over the 19-year period
anybody else from this world
that that is the plan they will do that
but they first have to have an idea of
how much funding we will have so they
really cannot move forward until they
have a few months of collections but my
understanding is that that is the plan
okay once they know
[Music]
the meetings I've attended they're going
to wait for about three months to see
much money and then to decide how much
of the bond they can fund with that so
you're probably looking close to the
first year before they do that then
you've got to sell you it'd be next year
before you see any money
it'll it'll take some time anybody else
and so fiscal year 24 I have a very
quick update there is no update no
update at this time so last we heard
June 20th they were supposed to come
back and
we're just waiting to see what happens
to see if there are any amendments to
the budget
all right okay thank you Miss World
thank you so Mr Dudley Mr Tucker you
heard it's going to be a big carryover
this year bigger a lot bigger than
normal okay so don't get excited when
you say it
I'm already moving some of the others
but you can see we have a lot going on
awful lot of construction going on which
is a good thing right it's a good
all right thank you Miss Worley again
for the update
George do you have anything from the
building committee
um
I guess we'll we'll just go with what Dr
Jones and Mike Hudson has suggested uh
we'll see what that works out by putting
cables I guess it's across the gym is
that correct Mr Hudson the cables
okay we're going to full go the pots at
this particular Point okay and we'll
we'll try another another approach we
just have some some concerns about uh
this ability of of putting the pots on
an existing floor that may have some
give in it so we'll we'll be looking at
it okay
more to come right welcome all right
report on division operations and safety
Mr Scott you're going to tell us a big
plan right
kind of
well first of all I think I need to say
thank you to that very comprehensive
report that was given by Ms Worley
because that touched on so much of what
we have going on in division operations
particularly all of the many projects
that we have going on during the course
of the summer and of course the the
comprehensive report that was provided
last month detailed those in particular
we do have of course Roofing projects at
our middle and elementary schools
ongoing HVAC projects at Kentuck
Elementary and at pctc the latter of
which as of our last project meeting
last week was actually proceeding faster
than we had anticipated and we have
buses that are transporting students to
and from summer summer school from
various pick up and drop-off locations
throughout the county and our IIT
department is busy working preparing for
the next phase of our one-to-one
initiative next year they're currently
uh working on assessing and preparing
the devices that we have collected to go
back into service again next year so
there are many projects in many places
you have three memos as a matter of fact
in your package this evening from Mr
Hudson that detail a number of projects
that are currently underway we have the
chiller replacement that is necessitated
at Gretna High School and fortunately as
part of the current roofing project that
we're there at the HVAC project that
we're doing at pctc we will be able to
put into service a chiller that is being
taken out of service there at Gretna
High School to fill the Gap until the
new Chiller can be put in we have of
course the HVAC and window project
that's going on at stonyville elementary
school and then we have some safety
related work that we'll be undertaking
in the way of in installing security
film in our doorways and I'll talk about
that a little bit more in a moment
I'm reminded of an axiom or Maxim that
is often spoken by coaches and and even
in some cases music teachers and that is
that you play as you practice and
certainly I think earlier this evening
some of the concerns that have been
shared to the board by the individuals
who have addressed the body tonight
particularly
Mrs McCluster and Miss Myers speak to
something that's on the mind of many
people currently and that is school
safety toward that end as I noted last
month we are working collaboratively
with the Pennsylvania County Sheriff's
Department to plan an active full-scale
mass casualty simulation event that will
take place on the grounds of Gretna
Middle School on the 31st of July and
the event will involve not only men
members of the administration and
faculty and staff members from Gretna
area schools but from schools across the
division those who are interested in
participating will be given the
opportunity to sign up to participate
individuals who are currently on our
staffs throughout the division and we're
also partnering not only with
Pennsylvania county sheriff's department
but with the Virginia Department of
Transportation the Virginia State Police
we will have a number of fire and rescue
entities on hand the day of the event as
well as a couple of
helicopters as currently in the works so
this will be a very large scale event
the event will be publicized well in
advance we will begin using roadside
signs about a month or excuse me about a
week in advance of the activity and
we'll have other public service
announcements that will go out a month
prior to the event itself so this will
be quite large scale
um and the intent is for this to be the
first of many such training exercises
that will take place in the ensuing
years this will not be a once and done
event but rather it is being held so
that we can refine our practices
throughout the division and the
communication that goes on not only
within our division but among various
other law enforcement and Public Safety
entities and the School Division itself
and in the future we will continue to
have similar events at other locations
throughout the division in order to not
only practice our own crisis management
plans but to allow these entities and
these other organizations throughout our
community other stakeholders to have the
opportunity to practice their school and
Public Safety responses as well
so I know that's a very general overview
of what we have going on Are there
specific questions that the board would
have regarding anything that is planned
currently
anybody
so when you see all the helicopters and
the police cars headed the ground in the
middle don't get excited on this
training that's right and we again we
will publicize this well in advance so
that uh all of our stakeholders will be
aware of what is going on on the day of
the event itself I will agree with you
it's much easier if you practice to
execute when you need to than to have to
do it unpracticed right and have to wing
it right yes thank you Mr Scott anybody
have any questions Miss Burton Miss
Scott is this your second or third event
well this is actually the part sort of
the third in a series of events that we
have uh had this year we started back in
January with training exercises for our
school administrators in the
reunification and response protocols we
followed up in April with another series
of tabletop activities that involved not
only our administrators in the school
division but other representatives from
local fire rescue law enforcement
entities and then
in the wake of those two practices we
have the large-scale drill full scale
drill that is coming up in July
I don't know what I've said that in the
public before but
after those two I've had several
administrators tell me best training
they've ever had they've done a good job
thank you and that's our goal is to
provide meaningful uh training in the
course of these exercises thank you very
much anybody else have any questions
comments
all right thank you Mr Scott
anybody have any questions on any of the
deaths reports reminder
if not we'll move on to the
superintendent's report
yes sir Mr Dawson score members it is
our practice as a school board and
administrators to recognize students who
have achieved state level recognitions
first second or third place but this
evening I would like to recognize a
young lady Cassidy Jones Johnson she
placed first in the regional young
authors contest I'd like to recognize
her we have a certificate of her here
her will give this to Mr Nick and he can
present that to her okay I'd like to
recognize her next on my agenda uh
pre-covered we partnered with the boys
and girls club to provide after-school
care for our students the STEM Academy
since
during covid we kind of stopped that
because of the social distancing
requirement but the Boys and Girls Club
has come back to us and asked if we
would partner again with them at Dan
River Middle School
we have met Mr Nick and I have met with
the boys and girls club we have in your
packet this evening a new mou drafted by
our attorney
and would like just your blessing this
evening to move forward with that one
one item if you look at the facility use
agreement in policy it requires a rental
fee for a a group like this Boys and
Girls Club is a 501c3
non-profit group I would like to ask the
board if you recall back when we
previously had the boys and girls club
we provided space at no charge because
policy requires a charge I would like to
ask the board to to say a nominal fee of
say one dollar per year if the board is
in agreement with that okay we're going
to need a motion to approve that anybody
make a motion to approve the window I'll
make that motion go along with Dr
Jones's recommendation one dollar a year
okay
second of a second any discussion roll
call please
Burton
to Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson
Miss Merricks
Mills yes Mr Moon Mr Donald
just previously you all asked about a
legislative breakfast that's something
that we did pre-covered uh you all asked
this year most time we did in October
early November asked that we would look
at probably a month during the summer
time we would like to propose this
evening a tentative date for the
legislative practice to be Friday
September the 8th
nine o'clock and would like to have it
in the boardroom
anybody have an issue with that
September the 8th
let's not go ahead yes sir next item I
have a middle school athletics update we
have met with the middle school
principals to discuss where we are with
this I remember we're going to offer
volleyball and basketball for middle
school students next year we've ordered
uniforms and they're arriving we've
ordered equipment we've all ordered
balls and ball carts all those items are
are arriving at this time we have
contacted thanks Mr Henderson the the
officials of organization and they
indicate that they have enough referees
to cover the games that we have we're in
the process of interviewing for coaches
and athletic directors and so we're well
underway to have those would be a fall
opportunity for the girls in volleyball
and then a winner opportunity for boys
in basketball
next item I have uh desperate committee
will meet June the 20th at 6 pm
and then the last item I have other than
just the meeting the bsba conference
this summer is that again this summer Mr
Aaron book has been selected to
participate in the National Endowment
for the Humanities summer workshop Mr
book teaches at Tulsa high school he is
one of only about 25 teachers selected
to participate this summer and if you
recall he was selected last summer as
well so congratulations to Mr book and
the last item I have is the vsba
conference for Education it's at the
Hilton Richmond Hotel July the 13th if
you're interested in attending
I'm sorry and then educate of the year
one other item I have educate of the
year and I have that right here and
greatly appreciate uh Mrs Reynolds Mr
Scott and their staffs for putting
together a quick PowerPoint that I'd
like to share I'd like to thank Mrs
Petty for the teach of the Year luncheon
that we we have held we've held at
gentlemen's Ridge earlier this summer if
you recall in the past this has been a
joint venture with the Chamber of
Commerce where they recognize some local
uh
reps representatives of local agencies
for their Awards as well as our teachers
this year we recognize our teachers and
I think Miss Petty I think it went very
well and I think we've heard from our
staff that they'd like for us to
continue this so again thank you and
thank you Mr Dawson for all those would
you like to flip through the slides just
to kind of give you an idea of who all
we recognize 20 teachers those are our
20 teachers that we recognize we will do
something more formally in September to
recognize these teachers more formally
as we've done the past
and then the last slide are our three
winners
and it would like to read their names to
you all this evening the first our first
place winner
is
Tara Stafford from Chatham High School
second place or runner-up is Catherine
Cruz
uh from Union Hall Elementary School and
our third our second runner-up is
Bethany Hilliard from Tunstall Middle
School we were very fortunate to again
be able to provide these staff members
with well-deserved of money money amount
of twenty five hundred dollars for our
first place winner a thousand dollars
for a second and then 500 for third
place compliments of RJ Baldwin and his
son
Colby Warren and his Law Firm so we
greatly appreciate their Their donation
there
thank you Dr Jones we have no unfinished
business first item in new business we
need to elect a vsba delegate an
alternate Delegate for the annual bsba
convention
who wants to volunteer
[Laughter]
I don't everybody speak at one time
right
Kevin wants to volunteer you haven't
known years ago right
they don't do you do it remote last year
Mr Fitzgerald you're doing it I went
you win you'll do it again
yeah what is this November 15th 15th
through the 17th November 15th that's
when we died
anybody have a problem with Fitzgerald
doing it
you don't elect them somebody want to
make a motion for him
I'll second
profile
Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr
Henderson aye Ms Merricks Mr Mills yes
Mr Moon Mr dots aye please
you've done before
somebody
I'll make that motion okay second
don't call please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms Max
Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr Dallas
next item we have is revision of school
board policies we're going to waver the
first read and go ahead and do a final
approval it's a bunch of policies and we
need to do it so they'll be in place for
the start of next year
um they'll have a motion to wave and
approve them on the first read
a second any questions on any of the
policies I know it was a lot
roll call please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson
aye Ms Merricks aye Mr mayles yes Mr
Moon Mr Dallas
aye
Family Life instructional materials we
need to approve that
I'll make the most
any discussion on the Family Life
materials broke all please Mr Burton aye
Mr Fitzgerald Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon all
right Mr dolls we have some procurement
bids the first one is for school
nutrition paper products
to make that motion
second
any discussion roll call please Mr
Burton Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson
aye Ms Merricks aye Mr mayles yes Mr
Moon all right Mr Donald all right next
one is a chiller replacement at Gretna
High School
second
any questions
broke all please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson
aye Ms Merricks aye Mr Mills yes Mr Moon
Mr Doss
aye the next one is a procurement bid
for pre-purchase of equipment for Stony
Mill Elementary HVAC and window
replacement
I'll make the motion second
any discussion roll call please Mr
Burton Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson
aye Ms Merrick
I and a final one is a procurement bid
for the ballistic security film I think
you just put that in our seat a while
ago
have a motion
[Music]
any discussion roll call please
Mr Burton aye
Mr Fitzgerald aye miss Mr Mr Henderson
aye Ms Merricks
yes Miss Moon
Mr Doss yes this time we're going to
take about a five minute break we're
going to go back into closed session
this will end our Open session for
tonight appreciate all y'all coming and
staying I hope you all have a great
summer if you'll come back next month
we'll do it again thank y'all